so as I alluded to in the previous video we are going to change the way
that we populate the list view and that's
because the way we've been doing it
so far isn't really recommended now the way we've done it so far does work but
it's not the way we want to do it in a real world application when we add to do
items
what we are doing is we are explicitly updating the
list view by repopulating it again
now not only is that inefficient but in
a more complex application that has got
many different ways for the user to
change what our controller is displaying it
would be a really easy for the controller to get out of sync with the data so
we don't want that to happen so instead of
explicitly trying to manage what the
list view is displaying we're going to use
what's called data binding now when we
bind a controlled data the controller is gonna notice when the data changes
without us having to write any code so the control will seemingly update
itself and it does this because the
JavaFX developers have written all the
code to handle these changes npw the way
it works is pretty similar to how event
handing works when the controller is
populated with what's called an
Observable Collection it is going to react to events raised by that collection by running a
handler so when items are added or deleted
from that collection the control will then
change what is displaying on screen so lets
change our code now to use data binding
so we are gonna start in the to do data class let's go
back to that at the moment with out to do items
you can see here on line 23 we've got
private list to do items and
we are gonna change that to an observable list and
that's gonna help this data binding to work so
lets go ahead and change list to
observable list so....
you notice the imports are updated and when we do that we want to update our getter as well now at the moment its going to return a list on line 35
but will change our getter to now return the observable list so that is why I'm pasting in the
new class name so that's a change is
made there and then in our main windows controller what we
gonna do is populate the list view by calling the set items method rather
than calling
get item.set all I'll show you what I mean their so go back to controller and up here
currently you can see here on line 47 we are using
to-do list view.getItems.setall
so instead of doing that change that to
something that's a lot easier it will be just
....
..so those steps are all we
really need to do to bind the list view
to the observable list in the to do data class so now we've done that we
can remove the code that explicitly
populates the ListView when the user adds
a new to do item so lets do that and down here with the ok we no longer need that code anymore so we got
the dialogue controller their we can get rid of this set all now because it's been handled automatically
by the data binding and we still need to
process results and we still need the
select we still need it to select the right item after
its been updated but however we don't
really need to do anything else so we get rid of these prints there as well we probably don't need those anymore so lets get rid of those as well
so we got our dialogue controller to do item figuring out what the new to
do item is
here on line 75 processing the results and then we just setting the item we
are selecting the new item that
was just added everything else is now
handled and updated automatically
by the data binding
so we have taken out the code now to explicitly
repopulate the list view manually
so if we run this now go ahead and add a new
item
....
...you notice that the item was added
automatically even though we haven't
explicitly added the code or we are not using code to
repopulate the list view anymore and
again just closing that down after the
dialogue going back here has taken care of
adding the new item to the observable list
that is back in the list view we simply go ahead
and select the new item which we do on line
76 so before we move on
will recall that we're loading our items
from a file we just go back to
the to do data class
so if we scroll down and have a look and see here
when we are loading the items the code on
line 44 its using fx collections.observableArrayList you probably saw
that previously videos when created and you might be wondering you
know why we using it and in fact why
we are using an observables list from the JavaFX API
rather than using a general list from
the java.utils.collections package
well we are doing it for performance reasons
as we have learn observable lists will raise events and
because methods within the list classes
may call it each other when a list changed it's
the possible for more than 1 event to be
raised for a single change for
example if method a b&c all raise events and
when an item is added a method a calls b which calls c then 3
events will be raised whenever an items added and UI operations can be
expensive and that's because the UI control has two paint the screen or part
of itself on the screen on the display
so we don't want to control like a list view
to run its handler multiple times
when an item is added or deleted
ideally what we want is to only runs its handler once now the FX collections package
contains a copy of all the classes and
static methods in a java.utils.collections
package but the code has
been optimized to reduce a number of
events or notifications raised when the
collections changed
now as it says in the FXML collections
documentation which I will bring up shortly
all methods are optimized in a way that only yield a limited numbers of
notifications on the other hand java.utils.collections might call
modification methods or an observable
listed multiple times resulting in a
number of notifications and I'll bring up that documentation on the screen
I suggest you checked that out on your leisure you can read
more about this.....
again you can see here the utility methods here are mainly for
performance reasons and their optimize in a
way that only yield or that they yield
limited number of notifications so the
bottom line with all this going back to
our code is that we really always want to
use the fx collections versions not
the version in java.utils.collections
and that's why we've used
this observable array list on line 44 to
do that so lets add a to do item that has got
some lengthy details to make sure that we are able to access all the details on the
right hand side so run the application again and add a new item and will call this
one.....and for the text what
we're going to do is generate 3,000 words
so we can just sort of copy and paste
that and theirs a website where you can go to
get to save you having to find that so paste that link in as always links are in the Resources section go their now and
that would generate some dummy text for us make
sure that the paragraphs are set to one
that's because our quick and dirty way of
storing and loading items just assumes
all the data for an item are on the
same line so make sure that is selected
as one and changes these 200 to 3000 words which is a
lot longer and select all copy to
clipboard and go back to our application
and this doesn't always work for if I try that again you will find it doesn't always work so if it doesn't
work for you depending on your browser
and operating system just right click it
and select Copy after having selected or click select all and that will select
all the data or all the words and from their we can paste it in their like so and we got a pile of content
that's actually spanning left to right
their its quite a lot of words and I'm holding the right arrow
can see that its slowly going over their so we got 3000 words in other words we are actually in their
and just to make sure just make sure our vertical scroll bar is working you can see our horizontal line is working their....
and depending on your operating system you
might find you didn't need to copy the way I have
but I'll just do it this way you can see we got our vertical
scroll bar working as well that one
is working and the horizontal ones
working as well so that's good but obviously
in this example the text doesn't wrap and
that is a problem so I'm gonna cancel out of
that let's just change the text areas
property to true in the fxml so
we can see what that looks like so go to do item dialogue
change the text area and add a wrap text equals true so come down here and go
to the next line and put...
...and if we run this again and before I do that let's also change the text area for
our main window as well this is the part here because at the moment we only changed it so that it
would actually wrap in the dialogue itself but lets change it so it will
wrap in here as well to do that we are going to open our other fxml file our main window fxml go to the text area
for that and do the same for that as well where going to add....
and lets go back and run the application
again
create new entry and call it....and you can see we got the wrapping working
and there's all our next their
that's working well and I'm just gonna type in
extra stuff in there if I wanted and its working nicely so we know as we saw in the previous change before
we add the wrap text capability
that the horizontal scroll bars working we can now
see that obviously the vertical ones is working nicely as well let's set the
deadline to today's date
whatever the date is that you're watching this in my case its the 17th of may and you can see now in
also in the main window it's also
wrapping and we can scroll up and down
and quite happily
saved that information showing up correctly so
we are gonna stopped the video here in the next
one we're going to make some further
improvements to the it what we gonna do
is we are gonna highlight items in the list that have
a deadline of set to today and that
so the user doesn't have to click
on it each item to figure out which we need to prioritize so we'll work on that
in the next video